---
title: Now
date: 2024-05-21
updated: 2025-03-19
quality: A
importance: Top
permalink: now/
---
March has been going better than February. I'm feeling a lot better after my
hospitalization, and I was able to complete some follow up care which really
helped. Abby's family visited too, which was nice.

Currently, I'm still living in San Francisco, in the same apartment I've lived
in since we moved there in December 2012. What can I say, it's cozy,
rent-controlled and in an awesome neighborhood (near Zeitgeist). I also have the
same job at YouTube that I've had all that time.

I'm still teaching a free [Python
class](https://www.noisebridge.net/wiki/PyClass) at
[Noisebridge](http://noisebridge.net/) on Monday nights. I'm trying a new format
where I intentionally repeat lessons several times, in order to give people a
chance to catch up when they miss classes (which people tend to do a lot) and
also reinforce material that may have been mystifying the first time around.

All the work I put into [Rainfall](https://rainfall.dev) has kind of been a
bust. I added [matomo analytics](https://matomo.org/) and it seems like I'm
getting between 1-3 visits a week. Yikes. Not sure if I want to ramp up some
efforts to promote the thing, or just let it die a quiet death. At this point I
don't feel particularly inspired to add new features based on the fact that no
one is using it.

I bought a beautiful used copy of _Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind_ from Dog Eared
Books and I'm definitely enjoying it. I also took out another Zen book from the
library, about zazen and Zen meditation. Both books emphasize that there's kind
of no point in "reading about Zen" and that the real value is from the practice
of sitting zazen. So I'm thinking about going to the beginner day at the [San
Francisco Zen Center](https://sfzc.org) (which is the sangha founded by Shunryu
Suzuki, the author of the book) on April 6. It's walking distance from my
apartment!

---

### What is a 'now' page?

A now page is like an [[about]] page, but with the scope of "right now" instead
of a long view. The easiest way to think about it is: what would you tell a
friend that you haven't seen in a while about what you're up to?

### Where can I find a list of people with websites that feature a 'now' page?

Just go to [nownownow.com](https://nownownow.com). You can add your site to that
directory should you choose to add a /now page to your site.
